README.md, before:

# Changes in wealth across the life course in birth cohorts from five low- and middle-income countries

**Authors:**    
Jithin Sam Varghese (1), Linda S. Adair (2), Shivani A. Patel (3), Sonny Agustin Bechayda (4,5), Santosh K. Bhargava (6), Delia B. Carba (4), Bernardo L. Horta (7), Natalia P. Lima (7), Reynaldo Martorell (3), Ana M.B. Menezes (7), Shane A. Norris (8), Linda M. Richter (9), Manuel Ramirez-Zea (10), Harshpal Singh Sachdev (11), Fernando C. Wehrmeister (7), Aryeh D. Stein (3), for the COHORTS group     

**Author Affiliations:**       
1 Nutrition and Health Sciences Program, Laney Graduate School, Emory University, Atlanta, GA, USA   
2 Department of Nutrition, Gillings School of Global Public Health, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.   
3 Hubert Department of Global Health, Rollins School of Public Health, Emory University, Atlanta, GA, USA   
4 USC-Office of Population Studies Foundation, Inc, University of San Carlos, Cebu City, Philippines   
5 Department of Anthropology, Sociology, and History, University of San Carlos, Cebu City, Philippines   
6 Founder, New Delhi Birth Cohort, New Delhi, India.   
7 Postgraduate Program in Epidemiology, Federal University of Pelotas, Pelotas, Brazil   
8 SAMRC Developmental Pathways for Health Research Unit, University of the Witwatersrand, Johannesburg, South Africa   
9 DSI-NRF Centre of Excellence in Human Development, University of the Witwatersrand, Johannesburg, South Africa   
10 INCAP Research Center for the Prevention of Chronic Diseases (CIIPEC), Institute of Nutrition of Central America and Panama (INCAP), Guatemala City, Guatemala    
11 Sitaram Bhartia Institute of Science and Research, New Delhi, India    


**Background:**    
Temporally-harmonized asset-based measures of wealth can be used to study the association of life course wealth exposures with health outcomes in low- and middle-income countries. The longitudinal stability of asset-based indices in cohort settings is poorly understood.    

**Methods:**    
Using data from five birth cohorts from three continents, we develop temporally-harmonized asset indices over the life course through polychoric principal component analysis of a consistently collected set of assets. For each cohort, we compare harmonized index to cross-sectional indices created using more comprehensive asset measures using rank correlations. We evaluate the correlation of the harmonized index in early life and adulthood with maternal schooling and attained schooling, respectively.    

**Results:**    
Temporally-harmonized asset indices developed from a consistently-collected set of assets (range: 10 in South Africa to 30 in Philippines) suggested that mean wealth improved over time for all birth cohorts. Cross-sectional indices created separately for each study wave were correlated with the harmonized index for all cohorts (Brazil: r = 0.78 to 0.96; Guatemala: r = 0.81 to 0.95; India: 0.75 to 0.93; Philippines: r = 0.92 to 0.99; South Africa: r = 0.84 to 0.96). Maternal schooling (r = 0.15 to 0.56) and attained schooling (r = 0.23 to 0.53) were positively correlated with the harmonized asset index in the corresponding wave.    

**Conclusions:**   
Temporally-harmonized asset indices displayed coherence with cross-sectional indices as well as construct validity with schooling.

Commit message:

Updated README with link to article

README.md, after:

# Changes in wealth across the life course in birth cohorts from five low- and middle-income countries

**Key Messages**:     
•	Temporally-harmonized asset indices are useful to assess relative importance of wealth at different life stages with health on the same scale.    
•	Harmonized indices using a subset of assets were correlated with cross-sectional asset indices using all available assets in five LMIC birth cohorts.    
•	Harmonized indices displayed construct validity, as demonstrated by its correlation with schooling.    
•	Harmonized indices were robust to alternate specifications such as shorter lists of assets, study years, and factor extraction procedures.    

Link to article: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ssmph.2021.100976  

**Authors:**    
Jithin Sam Varghese (1), Linda S. Adair (2), Shivani A. Patel (3), Sonny Agustin Bechayda (4,5), Santosh K. Bhargava (6), Delia B. Carba (4), Bernardo L. Horta (7), Natalia P. Lima (7), Reynaldo Martorell (3), Ana M.B. Menezes (7), Shane A. Norris (8), Linda M. Richter (9), Manuel Ramirez-Zea (10), Harshpal Singh Sachdev (11), Fernando C. Wehrmeister (7), Aryeh D. Stein (3), for the COHORTS group     

**Author Affiliations:**       
1 Nutrition and Health Sciences Program, Laney Graduate School, Emory University, Atlanta, GA, USA   
2 Department of Nutrition, Gillings School of Global Public Health, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.   
3 Hubert Department of Global Health, Rollins School of Public Health, Emory University, Atlanta, GA, USA   
4 USC-Office of Population Studies Foundation, Inc, University of San Carlos, Cebu City, Philippines   
5 Department of Anthropology, Sociology, and History, University of San Carlos, Cebu City, Philippines   
6 Founder, New Delhi Birth Cohort, New Delhi, India.   
7 Postgraduate Program in Epidemiology, Federal University of Pelotas, Pelotas, Brazil   
8 SAMRC Developmental Pathways for Health Research Unit, University of the Witwatersrand, Johannesburg, South Africa   
9 DSI-NRF Centre of Excellence in Human Development, University of the Witwatersrand, Johannesburg, South Africa   
10 INCAP Research Center for the Prevention of Chronic Diseases (CIIPEC), Institute of Nutrition of Central America and Panama (INCAP), Guatemala City, Guatemala    
11 Sitaram Bhartia Institute of Science and Research, New Delhi, India    


**Background:**    
Temporally-harmonized asset-based measures of wealth can be used to study the association of life course wealth exposures with health outcomes in low- and middle-income countries. The longitudinal stability of asset-based indices in cohort settings is poorly understood.    

**Methods:**    
Using data from five birth cohorts from three continents, we develop temporally-harmonized asset indices over the life course through polychoric principal component analysis of a consistently collected set of assets. For each cohort, we compare harmonized index to cross-sectional indices created using more comprehensive asset measures using rank correlations. We evaluate the correlation of the harmonized index in early life and adulthood with maternal schooling and attained schooling, respectively.    

**Results:**    
Temporally-harmonized asset indices developed from a consistently-collected set of assets (range: 10 in South Africa to 30 in Philippines) suggested that mean wealth improved over time for all birth cohorts. Cross-sectional indices created separately for each study wave were correlated with the harmonized index for all cohorts (Brazil: r = 0.78 to 0.96; Guatemala: r = 0.81 to 0.95; India: 0.75 to 0.93; Philippines: r = 0.92 to 0.99; South Africa: r = 0.84 to 0.96). Maternal schooling (r = 0.15 to 0.56) and attained schooling (r = 0.23 to 0.53) were positively correlated with the harmonized asset index in the corresponding wave.    

**Conclusions:**   
Temporally-harmonized asset indices displayed coherence with cross-sectional indices as well as construct validity with schooling.
